welcome back to natural language
processing the next lecture is going to
be on one of the most
natural language processing specifically
question answering you're all familiar
with question answering from different
apps and websites and polyfoam
television one of the most popular
applications of question answering is in
speech systems like Siri that was
created by Apple so here's an interface
snapshot for Siri you can ask it a
question is whether in text or in speech
as for example what is the population of
Sri Lanka and then it gives you an
answer twenty point four million people
there are many other websites and
systems that deal with question
answering using natural language
processing one of the most popular ones
is called Ask Jeeves formally now it's
more known as ask.com so this is a
website that allows you to ask questions
in natural language form for example who
played lioness and lost and then it
gives you some information about the
person so to Ask Jeeves is somewhere
between a standard search engine in that
it returns mostly documents and a pure
question answering system because it
still allows you to ask the questions in
the form of natural language questions
another examples Wolfram Alpha which is
used for mathematical computations again
in the form of natural language dialogue
you can ask a question such as what is
the area of a circle with radius five
feet and then it will give you the
answer and it will also give you some
mathematical derivation and an image
that shows you how the answer which is
25 pi square feet was computed and
probably the most famous and at least at
least the most relevant to this class is
IBM's Watson system so a little bit of
background be as Watson system is a
question answering system that was used
on television to pay in the Jeopardy
game in the beginning of 2011 so this is
a snapshot from the TV show
it shows the two best humans at that
time who were facing against Watson what
Watson is not really embodied here at
all it's just represented by its avatar
which is the logo with a globe and the
form of some sort of a light bulb and as
you can see from the snapshot
after the final question of this round
of Jeopardy
Watson was ahead by a huge margin
$77,000 compared to the two humans who
are way way behind so how did Watson do
on Jeopardy here's some sample questions
for example on December 8th 2008 this
national newspaper raised its newsstand
prize by 25 cents to $1 so this is a
very typical question for Jeopardy it's
formulated slightly differently from
traditional questions in that it's
really formulated as an answer and
you're supposed to answer using a
question so in this case you would
suppose say something like what is USA
Today which is the name of the newspaper
I should notice that the
question-and-answer format used in
jeopardy is really equivalent to normal
question asked it's just a little twist
that is added to formulate the questions
and the answer is in the wrong in the
opposite order so here some other
questions that were used in the actual
jeopardy round in 2010 this former first
lady published the memoir spoken from
the heart and you're supposed to answer
who is Laura Bush and then some other
questions that you can look at on your
own although those were given in the
competition between Watson and the two
human participants in 2011 now you can
see some Watson videos on your own
here's some that I recommend they are
available on YouTube and other external
websites so why do we want to care about
question answering in a natural language
processing class well first of all
because people ask questions online if
you analyze some large corpus of queries
in search engines you will realize that
many of the queries are in the form of
natural language questions so one of the
earliest analyses of query corpora was
of the so called excite corpus which had
2.5 million queries about one day's
worth and simple analysis showed that
about 8% of those who were in the form
of natural language questions even
though the search engine was not really
supposed to understand human nature
language question so that means that
users are expecting the search engine to
understand human language
questions even though it's not
officially designated for that so those
eight percent about how for factual
questions for example what is the
country code for Belgium and the rest
were procedural for example how to get
out of debt or other types of questions
now I should notice here that factual
questions are much easier to deal with
and procedural questions because
procedural questions require a lot of
context for example who is the user what
sort of background they have whereas
factual questions typically have a
single answer that may vary over time
but in general it's a single answer or
perhaps one of a small set of possible
answers that are much easier to find so
here some questions on the Excite corpus
in what year did baseball become an
official sport again this is a fairly
straightforward question the assumption
is obvious is that this is about the
United States if this question were
asked in a different country perhaps the
answer would be different how do I get
out of debt I mentioned this one already
and here some others for example when is
the Super Bowl well as I mentioned
before questions of this type have
multiple answers that depend on time so
this year's Super Bowl is in a couple of
weeks next year Super Bowl is going to
be in a different location on a
different date so the answer to this
question will vary depending on when it
is asked seven same thing goes for the
next question who is California's
district state senator it's completely
possible that the answer to this
question depends on the location and it
certainly depends on the time give some
more sets of questions from different
systems so one of those systems is
called move ox it was one of the first
research system that was built in the
mid 90s by Julian Kupiec of Xerox PARC
and it was supposed to answer questions
based on a large encyclopedia so some
questions that are appropriate for this
kind of system are of this nature what
US cities at the junction of the
Allegheny and Monongahela rivers who
ought across the river and into the
trees who married actress Nancy Davis
and so on as you can see those are
fairly factual questions and they are
specifically
related to the corpus in this case and
encyclopedia in English okay so a few
more examples of corporate of questions
that have been published one is the so
called a AOL corpus that was published
about ten years ago and again you can
see that people ask very different types
of questions what is our what does
cerebral cortical atrophy mean what
fraction is closest to pi what is the
highest color is consumed by a person a
24-hour period you can notice that some
of those questions are mistyped and this
is very common in query logs people
don't always ask the questions in the
most grammatical way possible so a few
more you can look at them on your own so
one thing that people in the research in
natural language processing do for
question answering is called question
types taxonomy so they want to build an
ontology of question types
so that systems for question answering
can be built more efficiently so what
are the question types well they're
different distinctions that can be made
one distinction is between the so called
yes-or-no questions which require as the
name says either a yes or no answer for
example is Barack Obama the president of
the United States yes or no so those are
contrasted with the so-called WH
questions
the WH questions are who what where how
and so on another distinction is between
factual and procedural questions so
factual questions require usually a
short single answer that's factually
based procedural questions usually
require a lot of understanding about the
context and the user and typically
require a much more sophisticated than
detailed answer third dimension is
between single answer and multiple
answer questions so for example if I ask
what's the state flower of Oklahoma I'll
get one answer but if I ask a question
for example who are the representatives
from the state of Oklahoma I will have
to get by definition multiple answer so
if I ask which states were the first to
sign the US Constitution again I will
get multiple answers
another dimension is between objective
and subjective questions so for example
if you ask which movie Warren the Golden
Globe you will get an objective answer
versus if you ask what was the best
movie of the year you're probably going
to get a subjective answer I should note
that both of those are legitimate types
of questions and questions that people
ask people that expect to get answers
from a search engine for however the
ways that systems deal with those
questions can be very different one more
dimension is about context specific and
generic questions so a generic question
may be something that doesn't depend on
the user or the background or the type
of queries that I've asked most recently
who is a generic question would be the
opposite another dimension is whether it
is a known answer in the collection yes
or no so in many research evaluations of
question answering it was assumed that
all the questions that were used in the
evaluation had an answer somewhere in
the collection so the question was can
you find this answer perhaps the
sentence that contains it now in the
more general case the answer to a
question is not necessarily in the
collection so you should be able to say
I don't think that there is an answer to
this question in the collection and you
would get points if you correctly say
that there is no answer and you would
lose points if you think that there is
no answer but in fact there is one so
what's the state of the art in question
answer so most of the work is on factual
short answer questions the system
architectures typically include the
following components and I our component
so if you have a question it's it
converted to a query for a search engine
and then the search engine returns
documents that are likely to contain the
answers to those questions most current
systems use statistical approaches with
lots of data in some cases terabytes
they use relatively little knowledge in
the sense that they don't have a
detailed inference procedures and
detailed knowledge representation they
use mostly surface patterns so now I'm
going to go ahead and give you an
overview of some of the systems that
have been built over the years in
question answering and
to start with the oldest systems out
there and the way that I were to define
oldest is that those precede the
so-called tech evaluation the tech
evaluation happened in ninety nine and
has been going on for quite a few years
since then so let's start with those old
systems now perhaps the first system
that relates to question answering
is a so-called baseball system which was
built very a long time ago in the 1960s
its domain was questions about the
baseball statistics and it had a very
little very small vocabulary and very
small set of questions that it could
answer a second system which is only
marginally classified as a question
answering system is eliza which was
introduced by whites and BOM in the mid
60s it was a dialogue agent that
simulates the use of our psychologists
or therapists the third one that I would
like to discuss in more detail in a few
minutes is sure glue which was built by
Terry Winograd in the early 70s that one
had to deal with questions about the
simulated world of blocks so he had red
blocks and green box and square blocks
and round blocks and the system was able
to manipulate that word by putting
blocks on top of each other and by
asking and answering questions about
them the next system that I would like
to mention is system code by Bill woods
in the early 70s that system is called
lunar and it was based on data from
expeditions to the moon that to return
with a large collection of lunar rocks
so the questions that you could ask
there were for example how many rocks
have said to such a such property and so
on I will give you some more detail
about those systems in the next few
slides
so the first more general domain system
for question answering was introduced by
Julian Kupiec in 1993 it was based on an
encyclopaedia it was open domain and I
already showed you some of the questions
that it was able to handle a few minutes
ago the first web-based system was
called start it was designed by Boris
Katz at MIT in the mid
it was completely open domain and it
used the web corpus as the backend and
then I'm going to mention very briefly a
few more systems for example the system
called deep red for my turn Lynette
first money at all 1999 which was used
for answering reading comprehension
questions about school level texts and I
would like to mention also one of the
first spoken question answering systems
by victor zue and his group but also at
MIT in late 90s early 2000s called
Jupiter so let's now look at some of
those systems in a little bit more
detail I mentioned that Elijah was not
really a question answering system but I
would like to mention it here because
it's to engage in dialogue and it was
very influential in the development of
future dialogue systems so it plays a
therapist and doesn't really answer any
questions again this is a little joke on
therapist so maybe if you go to a
therapist and you ask a question they
don't really come up with answers they
just ask you some further questions and
ask you to think about your problems
more it uses very simple pattern
matching and then it converts some of
the questions that the user asks into
further questions or it asks for
clarifications for example let's look at
this following dialogue
Eliza says I am the psychotherapist
please describe your problems and then
the user says I am always tired and then
the system says why do you say you're
always tired again doesn't really give
you any useful information it just asks
you some additional questions because I
cannot sleep is it because you cannot
sleep that you came to me so it has a
way to convert you know some of the
surface patterns of the users questions
into additional questions follow-up
questions that simply indicate some sort
of intelligence even though it's really
not there yes help me please and then at
this point the system doesn't know what
to do so it starts again a new thread in
the dialogue by reminding the user of
something that they said earlier earlier
you said you cannot sleep and so on so
next the next system is lunar lunar
stands for a lunar sciences natural
language information system it was based
on
the collection of moon rocks the return
to Earth by Apollo 11 so Luna was able
to ask questions in English about this
very restricted domain it included the
foreign components the first component
was a general-purpose augmented
transition Network grammar for English
or an ATM grammar and Etienne is
essentially a finite state machine with
some transitions that are labeled so
that you can jump from one section of
the finite state machine to another and
then it uses a procedural semantics
framework for semantic interpretation so
it's able to convert the syntactic
information from the question into some
sort of a semantic representation that
is specific to the domain it Maps the
questions to logical representation and
it uses a 3500 word dictionary
it has 13,000 entries in the knowledge
base and for evaluation I would like to
report at lunar was able to answer
correctly 78% of the sentences that
humans actual professional geologists
wanted to ask of that system and this
happened a long time ago back in 1971 at
the lunar rocks conference this gives
some of the sample questions that lunar
was able to answer how many brakes use
contain olivine and what are they so
those are specific questions about the
rocks that were in the collection so
just to give an idea what an Etienne
looks like this is a snapshot from the
bill would paper from 1972 you can see
that you cannot really read the fonts
but you can get an idea that this is a
fairly complicated finite state
automaton that is used to represent the
users questions so the next system that
I want to mention today is sure glue by
Terry Winograd it was designed to answer
questions about the blocks world he is a
simple example the blocks world at that
point in time was rendered as those kind
of meshes of lines there is a box on the
right hand side and there are a lot of
blocks in the form of pyramids and cubes
and other shapes that were either in or
outside of the box possibly on top of
each other so the system simulated
that was able to recognize some of those
shapes and be able to place them on top
of each other move them into the box or
remove them from the box so here's the
sample dialogue the person says pick up
a big red block then the system says
okay so that means that it understood
correctly that there is only one big red
book available and it was able to find
it and move it next thing that the
person says is grasp the pyramid now the
computer says I don't understand which
pyramid you mean so in the context of
this dialogue there may be multiple
pyramids and the computer needs a little
bit more context so the person now said
okay forget about this pyramid now find
a block which is taller than the one
that you're holding and put it in the
box
so as you can see here the questions
involve commands but also inference so
the system has to be able to identify
all the blocks that are in the world to
figure out which ones are taller than
the ones that it is holding and then
determine if this is unambiguous and if
it isn't unambiguous to actually perform
the action and move that block to the
box so here's what the computer says by
it I assume you mean the block which is
taller than the one that I'm holding and
that just a confirmation that the
computer understands what the person was
asking and then the computer goes on and
says okay so that's exactly what I'm
going to do and by saying okay
the computer performs the action that
the person intended then the person
asked what does the box contain and now
the computer says well the box contains
the book pyramid and the blue block so
it has a very good representation of the
world at any point in time what it is
holding what's on the surface what is on
top of another block what's in the box
what's outside of the box and so on now
the last question is what is the pyramid
supported by the box what that means is
that the box contains the blue pyramid
and the blue block but the blue pyramid
is not on top of the blue box instead it
is directly sitting on top of the box
how many blocks are not in the box
four of them is at least one of them
narrower than the one which I told you
to pick up yes the red cube and so on if
you interested in the system in a little
bit more detail you can go to the
official website where there are many
other transcripts and also simulation
software that lets you manipulate the
blocks world with a little bit better
graphics than the ones that were used 40
years ago so the next system that I want
to discuss today's code start is what it
looks like currently it allows you to
ask arbitrary natural language questions
and it keeps some of the most
interesting ones in a log so you can
look at the questions in the category
geography or science and reference and
so that have been asked in the past so
start is an open domain system and like
for example lunar and shirt blue which
were about very specific domains it uses
the web as the backend and has been
mostly continuously online since 1993 so
that makes it the oldest web-based
system out there so this is a a little
bit of introduction about question
answering system we're going to systems
we're going to continue with the next
set of examples in the next section